---
title: "Amazon Elastic Container Service"
description: "A comprehensive guide covering amazon elastic container service"
date: "2025-09-20"
category: "Development"
image: "/assets/images/amazonecs.png"
tags: ["aws","cloud","docker","kubernetes","ai"]
---

# Amazon Elastic Container Service

Amazon ECS Deploying to Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) By Amazon.com Inc. - Amazon, Apache License 2.0 Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS) Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS) makes it possible to deploy, manage, and scale containerized applications using Kubernetes on AWS. https://logz.io/blog/aws-eks-vs-ecs-vs-fargate-understand-differences/ Notice that Amazon also offer Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) and Amazon Fargate. Since Amazon EKS is based on the open-source tool Kubernetes, all applications managed by Amazon EKS are fully compatible with applications managed by any standard Kubernetes environment. Login to aws.amazon.com AWS Management Console Docker desktop To demonstrate that it is possible to use the same kubectl client to deploy containers to a laptop or the AWS cloud consider this Docker desktop example. No containers running kutectl apply -f ./blog.yaml The cluster is running Accessing the Docker desktop cluster aws cli The aws command line tool is used to manage the Amazon Web Services cloud. Creating a New AWS Access Key Access Key Created aws configure aws configure is used to set credentials % aws configure AWS Access Key ID [None]: AKIAYLZDACM7MNDENQV4 AWS Secret Access Key [None]: iBXYnPPUTp+enyaVU2xvXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX Default region name [None]: Default output format [None]: eksctl eksctl is a simple CLI tool for creating clusters on EKS - Amazon's managed Kubernetes service for EC2. https://github.com/weaveworks/eksctl eksctl documentation on the AWS site ekctl project on github installing eksctl No clusters eksctl create cluster % eksctl create cluster \ --name blog-cluster \ --node-type t2.nano \ --nodes 2 using eskctl to create a cluster (node type t2.nano) blog-cluster is being created blog-cluster active blog-cluster Elastic Cloud Compute (EC2) nodes created eksctl command finished kubectl apply blog.yaml Using kubectl apply command to deploy containers eksctl delete cluster using ekctl delete to remove the cluster % eksctl delete cluster \ --name blog-cluster eksctl delete cluster The cluster has been deleted Deleting an AWS Access Key Publishing AWS Access Keys is not a great idea. This is how Keys are deleted. Select the Delete link Click the Deactivate button Confirm the access key name and click the Delete button The Access key has been deleted References AWS EKS - Create Kubernetes cluster on Amazon EKS | the easy way Docker Hub
