---
title: "Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS)"
description: "A comprehensive guide covering amazon elastic kubernetes service (amazon eks)"
date: "2025-09-20"
category: "Development"
image: "/assets/images/amazoneks.png"
tags: ["aws","cloud","docker","kubernetes","ai"]
---

# Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS)

Amazon EKS (Part 1) Deploying to Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS) By Amazon.com Inc. - Amazon, Apache License 2.0 Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS) Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS) makes it possible to deploy, manage, and scale containerized applications using Kubernetes on AWS. Since Amazon EKS is based on the open-source tool Kubernetes , applications managed by Amazon EKS are compatible with applications managed by other Kubernetes environments. Notice that Amazon also offer the Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS). Docker desktop To demonstrate that it is possible to use the same kubectl client to deploy containers to a laptop or Amazon EKS consider this Docker desktop example. No containers running kutectl apply -f ./blog.yaml The cluster is running Accessing the Docker desktop cluster Login to aws.amazon.com AWS Management Console aws cli The aws command line tool is used to manage the Amazon Web Services cloud. My Security Credentials Creating a New AWS Access Key Access Key Created aws configure aws configure is used to set credentials % aws configure AWS Access Key ID [None]: AKIAYLZDACM7MNDENQV4 AWS Secret Access Key [None]: iBXYnPPUTp+enyaVU2xvXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX Default region name [None]: Default output format [None]: eksctl eksctl is a simple CLI tool for creating clusters on Amazon EKS. https://github.com/weaveworks/eksctl eksctl documentation on the AWS site ekctl project on github installing eksctl No clusters eksctl create cluster % eksctl create cluster \ --name blog-cluster optional arguments: --node-type t2.nano \ --nodes 2 using eskctl to create a cluster (node type t2.nano) blog-cluster is being created blog-cluster active blog-cluster Elastic Cloud Compute (EC2) nodes created ~/neilhaddley/.kube/config file has been updated kubectl apply blog.yaml Using kubectl apply command to deploy containers cluster workloads kubectl get Get information about blog-service kubectl get service/blog-service | awk {'print $1" " $2 " " $4 " " $5'} | column -t load balancer url Accessing the Amazon EKS cluster eksctl delete cluster using ekctl delete to remove the cluster % eksctl delete cluster \ --name blog-cluster eksctl delete cluster The cluster has been deleted kubectl config use-context To switch back to using Docker Desktop % kubectl config use-context docker-desktop switch back to docker-desktop Deleting an AWS Access Key Publishing AWS Access Keys is not a great idea. This is how Keys are deleted. Select the Delete link Click the Deactivate button Confirm the access key name and click the Delete button The Access key has been deleted References AWS EKS - Create Kubernetes cluster on Amazon EKS | the easy way Docker Hub
