---
title: ".NET Core (Part 3)"
description: "A comprehensive guide covering .net core (part 3)"
date: "2025-09-20"
category: "Development"
image: "/assets/images/dotnet core part3.png"
tags: ["azure","dotnet","ai","dynamics"]
---

# .NET Core (Part 3)

.NET Core (Part 3) Creating a Blazor App that calls Microsoft Graph. Microsoft Dotnet Logo by Microsoft Corporation is licensed under Creative Commons CC0 1.0 Universal Public Domain Dedication Microsoft Graph Microsoft Graph is a REST API that can be used to access: Microsoft 365, Azure Active Directory, Windows and Dynamics 365. Microsoft Graph explorer is a developer tool that lets you learn about Microsoft Graph APIs. Microsoft Graph Explorer Blazor Server app I wanted to create a Blazor Server app that would allow users to sign in using their M365/Azure Active Directory credentials. I wanted the Blazor Server app to display the logged in user's name and their photograph. I created an Azure application (app) registration. Azure Active Directory New registration Single tenant redirect uri set to localhost... App registration created Update Authentication Add a client secret Secret will be valid for 180 days Copy the value Blazor Server Blazor is a web framework for building Razor components. Razor components run server-side in ASP.NET Core. (Razor components run client-side in the browser using WebAssembly) A blazor server application can be generated using the dotnet command line tool. $ dotnet new blazorserver -o <project name> In this case I wanted to create a blazor server application that would authenticate users using Azure Active Directory (the App registration created above) and call Microsoft Graph to access the user's profile and the user's profile photograph. $CONTENT$nbsp;dotnet new blazorserver --auth SingleOrg --calls-graph -o haddley-blazor-graph --client-id "5df669b6-f661-473c-9f5d-100f792d16c7" --tenant-id "2788913d-04ad-47a2-ac42-4b02caa6a4be" --domain "p8lf.onmicrosoft.com" -f net7.0 dotnet new blazorserver ... dotnet run (navigate to localhost) The generated Blazor Server app (includes integration with Azure Active Directory and Microsoft Graph) I copied the ClientSecret to appsettings.json I am now able to login to the Blazor Server app using Azure Active Directory credentials I provided the password I skipped Multi factor authentication (for now) Do I want to stay signed in? I navigate to the Show profile page /showprofile page Key move is call to injected GraphServiceClient (to access Microsoft Graph) I updated navigation... ... to include a link to a /showphoto page The /showphoto page will need to make a "my photo" call to Microsoft Graph I copied the "Me.Photo.Content" expression/path to the new /showphoto page. ShowPhoto.razor Show photo page running Program.cs Notice that the Blazor Server project includes a Program.cs file with contents similar what you would expect to see in a Model-View-Controller project. A Blazor Server project and a Model-View-Controller project are both ASP.NET Core projects and it is possible to mix and match. Program.cs (part 1) Program.cs (part 2) Program.cs References .NET Core (Part 2) Create a Blazor Server app that uses the Microsoft identity platform for authentication
