---
title: "Ionic"
description: "A comprehensive guide covering ionic"
date: "2025-09-20"
category: "Development"
image: "/assets/images/ionic.png"
tags: ["react","javascript","typescript","azure","docker"]
---

# Ionic

Ionic and PouchDB Cross-platform apps. Powered by the Web. This logo image consists only of simple geometric shapes or text. It does not meet the threshold of originality needed for copyright protection, and is therefore in the public domain. Starting an app $ npm install -g @ionic/cli $ ionic start <name> In this case we will create a todo Progressive Web Application (PWA) $ ionic start haddley-todo React blank Running $ cd <name> $ ionic serve ionic serve blank Visual Studio Code $ code . Visual Studio Code IndexDB Modern browsers support IndexDB. The Localbase package makes it easier to work with IndexDB. $ npm install localbase --save npm install localbase localbase.d.ts Localbases does not include typescript type definitions. To workaround this issue create a localbase.d.ts file localbase.d.ts contents localbase.d.ts todos.ts Create a TypeScript file that defines the "Todo" interface and uses Localbase to fetch, create and update todo items. data/todos.ts todos.ts TodoListItem A react component to display each todo item. Created using Ionic Web Components {IonItem, IonCheckbox and IonLabel} components/TodoListItem.tsx TodoListItem Home.tsx The home page fetches todo items from browser's IndexDB using the getTodos() method defined in todos.ts. The home page uses the setComplete(...) method to toggle the completed value. The home page uses the addToDo(...) method to add a new todo item. The home page uses Ionic Web Components to display a text box and a list of TodoListItems {IonButton, IonContent, IonHeader, IonInput, IonItem, IonList, IonPage, IonRefresher, IonRefresherContent, IonTitle and IonToolbar}. The IonRefresher Web Component allows a user to refresh the list by swiping the list from top to bottom. pages/Home.tsx Home.tsx Web Inspector (Safari) pwa-asset-generator The pwa-asset-generator can be used to generate a set of application icons from a single .jpg image pwa-asset-generator index.html Update public/index.html to include the links generated icons manifest.json The public/manifest.json file provides details of the web application. Update the manifest.json file to reference the generated icons default manifest.json updated manifest.json Update the application name. public/manifest.json Updated manifest.json Service Worker Service Worker allows the PWA to run offline. Service Worker allows the PWA to upgrade while online. index.tsx serviceWorkerRegistration.register(...) build $ ionic build ionic build Deploy to Azure Deploy to Static Website via Azure Storage... Deploy to Static Website... Create new Storage Account... haddleytodo Creating... Deployment complete Running in safari (from Azure) Running on iPhone Simulator (Safari) Add to Home Screen Add Icon on home screen Running (online) Updated version available IonItemSliding Add the IonItemSliding tag and the user is able to swipe an item from right to left to reveal a Delete option. IonItemSliding Swipe list item right to left PouchDB PouchDB is an open-source JavaScript database inspired by Apache CouchDB that is designed to run well within the browser. PouchDB was created to help web developers build applications that work as well offline as they do online. todos.ts CouchDB % docker run -p 5984:5984 -e COUCHDB_USER=admin -e COUCHDB_PASSWORD=password -d couchdb % curl localhost:5984 http://localhost:5984/_utils/ The code below demonstrates how the todo application was updated to use PouchDB and CouchDB. docker run ... curl localhost:5984 _utils Enable CORS No databases Adding Task 1 using Safari Task 1 has been added Task 1 details have been replicated to the CouchDB server All documents Task 1 details Task 1 has been replicated to Chrome Task 1 has been updated using Chrome Task 1 update has been replicated to Safari CouchDB is stopped Multiple changes made offline using Safari and Chrome CouchDB server started Multiple updates are replicated to/from Safari/Chrome References Starting an App CouchDB
