---
title: "Model Context Protocol (Part 2)"
description: "A comprehensive guide covering model context protocol (part 2)"
date: "2025-09-20"
category: "Development"
image: "/assets/images/mcpserver2.png"
tags: ["javascript","azure","docker","java","ai"]
---

# Model Context Protocol (Part 2)

Model Context Protocol (Part 2) Business Central The Model Context Protocol is an open source project run by Anthropic, PBC. Business Central I created a Model Context Protocol (MCP) server for Microsoft Business Central I created a business-central-mcp folder. I ran npm init -y . I updated the generated package.json file adding type: "module" . I ran npm install @modelcontextprotocol/sdk and npm install zod . I ran npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/inspector npx -y tsx main.ts . main.ts package.json The hello tool returned success I replaced the hello tool with a get-vendors tool src/main.ts src/business-central-auth.ts package.json tsconfig.json .env I ran npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/inspector npm run dev . The get_vendors tools returned success . Later I ran npm run build and then npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/inspector npm run start Streamable HTTP For remote servers, set up a Streamable HTTP transport that handles both client requests and server-to-client notifications. src/main.ts package.json dockerfile docker-compose.yml I ran docker build -t business-central-mcp . then npm run docker:run I ran npx -y @modelcontextprotocol/inspector I ran the get_vendors tool Create and deploy to Azure Container Apps The Azure Container Apps extension for Visual Studio Code enables you to choose existing Container Apps resources, or create new ones to deploy your applications to. https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-apps/deploy-visual-studio-code I entered the name of new container apps environment I selected a location I selected the Deploy Project from Workspace... menu item I accepted the generated container app name I selected the Managed Identity option I selected the .env file The deployment finished I ran a fresh copy of the inspector I tested the deployment using the URL https://business-central-mcp-new.thankfulsea-b533246e.eastus.azurecontainerapps.io/mcp Adding the MCP Model Context Protocol server to Copilot Studio via Custom Connector I used a Custom Connector to connect Copilot Studio to the Model Context Protocol server. I created an Agent. I selected the Tools tab. I clicked the + Add a tool button I selected Custom connector I selected the Import from Github option I selected the Custom radio button, I selected the dev branch, I selected the MCP-Streamable-HTTP Connector I entered the server url https://business-central-mcp-new.thankfulsea-b533246e.eastus.azurecontainerapps.io/mcp I refreshed the Model Context Protocol options I clicked on the MCP Server Streamable HTTP option I clicked the Create button I clicked the Add and configure button The get_vendors tool was displayed I was directed to the Create or pick a connection form. I clicked the Submit button The status if MCP-Streamable-HTTP was updated to Connected I had entered this prompt Please show me a table of vendors Copilot Studio's Large Language Model used the get_vendors tool to establish the context. How to Add an MCP Server to LM Studio Open LM Studio and navigate to the "Program" tab in the right sidebar. Click on "Install" and select "Edit mcp.json". This opens the mcp.json file in LM Studio's in-app editor. Add your MCP server configuration to the mcp.json file. I selected Chats in the left hand menu. I clicked the show settings button at the top right of the LM Studio application. I added the business central mcp server using the url https://business-central-mcp-new.thankfulsea-b533246e.eastus.azurecontainerapps.io/mcp . I enabled the mcp server connection. I entered the prompt show me a table of vendor details References Talk to Your Data: Build an MCP local Server in JavaScript (Node.js) that Understands Business Central How to add MCP Model Context Protocol to Copilot Studio via Custom Connector
