---
title: "Model Driven Purchase Orders"
description: "A comprehensive guide covering model driven purchase orders"
date: "2025-09-20"
category: "Development"
image: "/assets/images/modeldrivenpurchaseorders.png"
tags: ["ai","business central","dynamics","power platform"]
---

# Model Driven Purchase Orders

Power Apps (Part 13) Model Driven Purchase Orders This file is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International license. Model Driven Purchase Orders I created a Power Platform Model Driven application to manage Business Central Purchase Orders. I reset my Develop environment I navigated to the Business Central Virtual Table app published on AppSource I selected the Develop environment and clicked the Install button The Business Central Virtual Entity Dynamics 365 app was installed I navigated to make.powerapps.com and ran the Business Central Configuration app No tables were displayed I navigated to the Configurations page and clicked on the Business Central item I entered Production as the Environment name and Evaluation as the Default Company name I clicked the Save & Close button I navigated to the Available Tables page and clicked on the purchaseOrder table I updated the Visible value to Yes. I clicked the Save & Close button The purchaseOrder table was set to Visible I navigated the the Power Apps Tables list and clicked on the Purchase Order Table I clicked on the Relationships link and could see that there was a relationship between the Purchase Order table and the Company table I returned to the Business Central Configuration app and selected the purchaseOrderLine table I set the purchaseOrderTable to Visible. I clicked the Save & Close button The Visible property of the purchaseOrderLine table was updated The purchaseOrderLine table was added to the Power Apps Tables list. I reviewed the purchaseOrder table's Relationships. A Document Id relationship was shown between the purchaseOrder table and the purchaseOrderLine table I returned to the Business Central Configuration app and selected the vendor table I set the vendor to Visible. I clicked the Save & Close button The Visible property of the vendor table was updated The vendor table was added to the Power Apps Tables list. I reviewed the purchaseOrder table's Relationships. A Vendor Id relationship was shown between the purchaseOrder table and the vendor table I created a new publisher I created a new Business Central solution A added a Model-driven app to the Business Central solution I named the app Business Central I added a page to the app I selected the "Dataverse table" option and clicked the Next button I selected the Purchase Order table and checked the Show in navigation checkbox The Model-driven app opened. I clicked the Edit View link on the Purchase Orders view item At this point the "All Purchase Orders" view Only included the Purchase Order number (No.) column I added the Order Date, Status, Total Amount Excluding Tax and Total Amount Including Tax columns to the view I ran the model driven app. The Purchase Orders tab was selected and a list of Business Central Purchase Orders were displayed. I clicked the + New button The New Purchase Order form was displayed. I clicked the Save button The model driven app displayed an error (because to create a Purchase Order I needed to at least provide a Vendor ) I clicked the Edit form link on the Purchase Orders form I searched for the Vendor Id column. Quick View I configured the General tab to have two columns . I wanted to add a Quick View form to the right hand column. The Quick View form would allow a user to select a Vendor Id value on the left and to see corresponding Vendor details displayed on the right. The Vendor Id column has been added to the Purchase Order form I dragged the Purchase Order No. field into the header of the form (into the top right of the form) I added the Order Date, Status, Total Amount Excluding Tax and Total Amount Including Tax columns into the General Section I selected the General Tab and selected 2 columns A new section "New Section" was added to the General Tab I selected the Quick view component I selected the Vendor Id Lookup and the Vendor Information Quick View form I dragged the Quick View component to the right hand column (and hid the "New Section" label) I added the Vendor Quick View form to the solution I edited the Quick View form I added the No. field I added the Address Line 1 and Address Line 2 fields I added the City field I added the State field I added the Zip Code field I clicked Save & Publish I ran the Business Central app. I clicked the + New button I selected a Vendor The Vendor Id field was populated and the Quick View form was shown on the right hand side. I clicked the Save button The record was saved to Business Central and No. value 106034 automatically assigned The new purchase order was shown at the bottom of the "All Purchase Orders" view References Dataverse Configuration in Business central with PowerApps
