---
title: "Next.js (Part 3)"
description: "A comprehensive guide covering next.js (part 3)"
date: "2025-09-20"
category: "Development"
image: "/assets/images/nextjs3.png"
tags: ["database","ai","git","github"]
---

# Next.js (Part 3)

Next.js (Part 3) API routes and next-auth This file is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 4.0 International license. Get Request API routes let you create an API endpoint inside a Next.js app. To create an API endpoint inside a Next.js app add a file (or folder) to the /pages/api directory articles.js and /pages/api/articles/index.js Get Request Dynamic API routes API routes can be dynamic, just like regular Next.js pages /pages/api/articles/[id].js Dynamic API Route Unprotected pages User login is not required to access all of the pages. /pages/unprotected Unprotected page next-auth next-auth can be used to prevent unauthorized access to protected api methods and protected pages. $npm install next-auth GitHub Id and GitHub Secret Here I used GitHub as an authentication provider. GitHub Developer Settings Register a new OAuth application Note the Client ID and Client Secret .env Maintain the Client ID and Client Secret values in an .env file .env [...nextauth] Add a [...nextauth] api method /api/auth/[...nextauth].js _app.js Add a 'next-auth/client' Provider to _app.js _app.js Provider Add code to prevent unauthorized access Ensure that a valid session exists before returning articles or article details (using a REST API call or a web page request) /pages/api/articles/index.js (updated) /api/articles is now protected /pages/api/articles/[id].js (updated) /api/articles/4 is now protected /pages/protected.js page /protected is now protected (server-side) /pages/protected.js page /protected is now protected (client-side) Adding login and logout to home page Adding "Sign In" and "Sign Out" to home page. /pages/index.js Sign in Sign in with GitHub provider Signed in authorized authorized authorized next-auth database (optional) Specifying a database is optional if you don't need to persist user data or support email sign in. If you don't specify a database then JSON Web Tokens will be enabled for session storage and used to store session data. To specify a database update the [...nextauth].js file (and a few environment variables). [...nextauth].js .env accounts users session (with user id and provider) pages References Next.js Crash Course 2021 NextJS Authentication Crash Course with NextAuth.js Adding Authentication to an existing serverless Next.js App in no time with NextAuth.js! Next.js Tutorial - 77 - Callbacks
