---
title: "Next.js (Part 2)"
description: "A comprehensive guide covering next.js (part 2)"
date: "2025-09-20"
category: "Development"
image: "/assets/images/nextjs2.png"
tags: ["react","javascript","java","ai","ml"]
---

# Next.js (Part 2)

Next.js (Part 2) getStaticProps, getServerSideProps, getStaticPaths and useSWR This file is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 4.0 International license. Pre-rendering Next.js has two forms of pre-rendering: Static Generation and Server-side Rendering. The difference is in when Next.js generates the HTML for a page. Static Generation is a pre-rendering approach that generates the HTML pages at build time. Server-side Rendering is a pre-rendering approach that generates the HTML on each request. You can create a Next.js app that uses Static Generation for some pages and Server-side Rendering for others. Static Generation (with data) In Next.js, after exporting a page function, a developer can export a getStaticProps function. A getStaticProps runs at build time. getStaticProps A getStaticProps function can be used to generate a page based on data returned by a web service call*. * You should not fetch an API Route from getStaticProps or getStaticPaths . Instead, write your server-side code directly in getStaticProps or getStaticPaths (or call a helper function). /pages/articles/index.js getStaticProps getServerSideProps A getServerSideProps function is used at runtime to build a page in response to a request (with or without caching). /pages/articles/[id]/index.js getServerSideProps getStaticPaths getStaticProps and getStaticPaths can be used together to generate multiple pages. /pages/articles/[id]/index.js getStaticProps and getStaticPaths being used together next export next export can be used to generate html pages that can be uploaded to a static web server. $ npm run export npm run export out folder with generated pages /out/articles/36 useSWR Once the server-side rendered parts of a page have been downloaded JavaScript running on the page can fetch data and populate the remaining parts of the page (client-side). $ npm install swr /pages/articles/[id]/index.js Catch all routes Dynamic routes can be extended to catch all paths by adding three dots (...) inside the brackets. For example: pages/post/[...slug].js matches /post/a, but also /post/a/b, /post/a/b/c and so on. pages/fullname/[...slug]/index.js matches /fullname/neil, but also /fullname/neil/haddley, /fullname/neil/leonard/haddley and so on. You can use names other than slug, such as: [...param] /pages/fullname/[...slug]/index.js Client-side code Catch all routes References SWR React Hooks for Data Fetching
