---
title: "Next.js (Part 1)"
description: "A comprehensive guide covering next.js (part 1)"
date: "2025-09-20"
category: "Development"
image: "/assets/images/nextjs1.png"
tags: ["react","javascript","java","git","github"]
---

# Next.js (Part 1)

Next.js (Part 1) The React Framework for Production This file is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 4.0 International license. create-next-app npx create-next-app nextjs-blog --use-npm --example "https://github.com/vercel/next-learn/tree/master/basics/learn-starter" npx create-next-app nextjs-blog --use-npm --example "https://github.com/vercel/next-learn/tree/master/basics/learn-starter" npm run dev accessing nextjs-blog npm run dev create the about page React Functional Export Component (frce) about.js notice that the React from 'react' import is not needed accessing the about page Link component The Link component is used to enable client-side navigation between pages. Here I have used the Link component to improve performance of page navigation between the index and second-post pages in a posts folder. In a production build Next.js automatically prefetches the code for linked pages in the background. creating a posts folder index.js, first-post.js and second-post.js Network traffic when <a href=...> tag is used Network traffic when Link component is used public folder Public files are added the project's public folder profile.jpeg accessing the profile.jpeg file image.js a page with a next/image component Metadata The 'next/head' component can be used to set the <title> tag for a Next.js page. index.js Page title is 'Posts' CSS Modules Next.js supports CSS Modules using the [name].module.css file naming convention. layout.module.css, layout.js and first-post.js CSS Modules first-post page with CSS Modules component added Styled Components Styled Components is a CSS-in-JS tool that lets developers write CSS in JavaScript files. I ran the following commands to install styled-components. $ npm install styled-components $ npm install --save-dev babel-plugin-styled-components I added a .bablerc file with this content { "presets": ["next/babel"], "plugins": [["styled-components", {"ssr":true}]] } Finally I copied the _document.js file from: https://github.com/vercel/next.js/blob/canary/examples/with-styled-components/pages/_document.js to the project's /pages folder see also: https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/with-styled-components layout2.js and second-post.js Styled Components second-post page with styled-component added References Next.js Getting Started Next.js is The Best React Framework Adding Styled Components to a Next.js project
