---
title: "Power Pages (Part 1) BACKUP"
description: "A comprehensive guide covering power pages (part 1) backup"
date: "2025-09-20"
category: "Development"
image: "/assets/images/page199.png"
tags: ["ai","business central","dynamics","power platform"]
---

# Power Pages (Part 1) BACKUP

Power Pages (Part 1) A Business Central Customer Portal Microsoft permits the use of these icons in architectural diagrams, training materials, or documentation. A Business Central Customer Portal Microsoft Power Pages is a low-code platform designed to build, host, and manage external-facing business websites. Microsoft Dynamics Business Central provides an end-to-end solution for financials, sales, service, and operations. A Customer Portal is a software interface that gives customers complete visibility into their interactions with a company. It provides a platform for customers to track key metrics, support requests, or other information such as reference documents that can be easily shared. I used Microsoft Power Pages to create a Customer Portal I navigated to the Assisted Setup page in Business Central I selected the Set up a connection to Dataverse link I enabled data synchronization and virtual tables I accepted the terms and conditions I selected the Developer Power Platform/Dataverse environment I signed in as a Power Platform administrator I clicked the Next button I clicked the Install Business Central Virtual Table app link I clicked the Get it now button I clicked the Get it now button I selected the Develop environment I checked the I agree boxes and clicked the Install button Business Central Virtual Table was installed I clicked the Review and enable virtual tables link I selected six Virtual Tables and clicked the Enable button A job queue entry was scheduled I navigated to the Dataverse Connection Setup page I clicked the Test Connection button I navigated to the Contacts list Business Central sample data includes example Contacts I navigated to the Customers list Business Central sample data includes example Customers and Vendors (Accounts). I started the Business Central to Dataverse synchronization process The Contacts table in the Develop environment was initially empty The Synchronization jobs copied Contact, Account and other details from Business Central to Dataverse After the sync. the Contacts table included Contacts (connected to Accounts) Customer and Vendor details were copied from Business Central to Dataverse Sales Orders In Dynamics 365 Business Central, a Sales Order is a document that represents a customer's intent to purchase goods or services from a company. It is a crucial component of the sales process and serves as a foundation for managing customer interactions, tracking orders, and fulfilling customer requests. I navigated to the Sales Orders list I reviewed the Sales Orders list I navigated to the Sales Order Virtual Table I was able to see the same records I added columns to the display Solution I created a Power Platform Solution I created a Customer Portal Solution I could not create a new Site in the Solution page I navigated to the Power Pages home page https://make.powerpages.microsoft.com/ I created the Customer Portal site I waited I clicked the Next button I added a Sales Orders page I added a list to the Sales Orders page I selected the Sales Order virtual table I selected the All Sales Orders view I clicked the Done button I clicked the + New permission link I selected Authenticated Users I clicked the Sync button I clicked the Preview button I clicked the desktop button I clicked the Sign in button I selected the Consent option and clicked the Accept button I was taken to a profile page I navigated to the Sales Order page and reviewed the list I clicked the Edit views button and added columns I clicked the edit column button and adjusted the number of decimal places (to 2) I clicked the Save and publish button I navigated to the Sales Orders page I reviewed the other Access type options. Account access looked to be the option I wanted to select but it needed a relationship between the Sales Order list and the Account table I clicked the Synthetic Relations button I clicked the * New button I selected the Dataverse/CRM Account table I selected the Sales Order Virtual table I selected the Account Name column in the Account table I selected the customerName column in the Sales Order virtual table I clicked the Next button A key was created I clicked the Finish button The relationship was displayed I selected the relationship I navigated to the Sales Order page and found an Internal Server Error I clicked the Edit row using form button I selected an Account (for my Contact) I clicked the Save & Close button I refreshed the Sales Order page and saw the Adatum Corporation related Sales Orders I updated the Account Name in my contact to Alpine Ski House I clicked to Sync button I navigated to the Sales Orders page I added the Site to the Customer Portal solution I could see the Site included in the solution Robert Townes I created an invitation for Robert Townes an Adatum Corporation contact. I clicked on the Security menu item I clicked the Site visibility menu item I clicked the Public option. I clicked the Set to public button. I clicked the three dots icon to the right of the Sales Orders page and selected the Page Settings menu item. I selected the Permissions tab I clicked the I want to choose who can see this page option and selected the Authenticated Users checkbox I selected the Power Pages Management menu item I selected the Contacts menu item I reviewed the Robert Towns Customer Card in Business Central. Robert is an Adatum Corporation Contact. I clicked the Create Invitation button A new Invitation record is created. I clicked the Save button. I clicked the Advanced tab and copied the Invitation Code I started a new browser and navigated to https://haddleycustomerportal.powerappsportals.com/register/?returnurl=%2f&invitation=Grm2DCf3-325v32G... I entered a username and password I clicked the Register button I reviewed the Profile and clicked the update button The Customer Portal home page was displayed I navigated to the Sales Orders page Power Pages Authenticated External Users Because external users have no Business Central license or entitlements, we included built-in app/S2S users to access data stored in Business Central online on their behalf. Permission sets can be assigned to these app/S2S users to control data access by external users. I navigated to the Microsoft Entra Applications page I selected the Power Pages Authenticated External Users page I clicked the edit menu item (the pencil icon) I added the D365 BUS PREMIUM and LOGIN User Permission Sets (I did not need to click the Grant Consent button) Robert was able to access the Adatum Corporation Sales Orders Model Driven App A Microsoft Model-Driven App is a type of application in the Power Apps suite designed to help users create complex, data-driven applications with minimal coding. Model-driven apps are structured around data models and relationships, meaning the app's layout and components are automatically generated based on the underlying data. I added two existing tables to the Customer Portal Solution I added the Sales Order and Sales Order Line tables I clicked the Add button I added an existing Form to the Sales Order table I added the Information (Main) Form I added fields to the form I updated the section adding a second column I divided the fields between the two columns. I added a new 1-column section I added a subgrid to the new section I hid the new section's label. I updated the Subgrid's label to "Lines". I clicked the Save and Publish button. I clicked the Edit view button (the pencil icon next to the Default view dropdown) I updated the All Sales Order Lines view I created a new Model Driven App I added a Dataverse table page I selected the Sales Order table (checking the Show in navigation box) I clicked the Publish button I clicked the Play button I updated a few of the Sales Order Table columns setting the number of decimal places The amountExcludingTax column was originally shown to 10 decimal places The amountExcludingTax column was updated show only 2 decimal places The Sales Orders page in the Customer Portal Admin app I added a page to the Power Pages site I added a Form to the page I set the source of the Form I set the Form to read-only I clicked Permissions The All Sales Order table permission was displayed I opened the Sales Orders page and clicked the Edit List button I enabled the View details action I set the Target type to Web Page and selected the Sales Order page I clicked the Sync button. I clicked the Preview button. I clicked the View details action I viewed the Sales Order details. The Sales Order Line view was not displayed. I updated the All Sales Orders permission I created a Child permission. I added the Authenticated Users role The user was unable to see the Sales Order Lines I added a Sales Order Line permission Robert was able to view a Sales Order and the related Sales Order Line details References What's new: Using Power Pages with Business Central - Licensing What's new: Business Central Integration with Dataverse - Synthetic Relations Power Pages on virtual tables (preview)
