---
title: "Java Spring Boot (Spare)"
description: "A comprehensive guide covering java spring boot (spare)"
date: "2025-09-20"
category: "Development"
image: "/assets/images/page141.png"
tags: ["azure","docker","java","spring","postgresql"]
---

# Java Spring Boot (Spare)

Java Spring Boot (Part 3) Spring Data JPA Spring Framework logo by Pivotal Software is licensed under Apache License 2.0 Spring Data JPA Spring Data JPA provides a set of abstractions and high-level, repository-style interfaces that make it easier to work with Java Persistence API (JPA) for data access in Spring applications. It reduces boilerplate code. I created a Spring Boot application that used Spring Data JPA to access PostgreSQL. I created a GitHub repository I opened the repository using GitHub Desktop I clicked the Open in Visual Studio Code button ProgreSQL running locally I used Docker to run an instance of ProgreSQL locally. I added a docker-compose.yml file. The docker compose file will start a Docker container running PostgreSQL and a second container running Adminer (a database administration tool). Notice that in the Docker virtual network the PostgreSQL instance has hostname db. I ran docker componse -f docker-compose.yml up The Docker containers were started I used Adminer to login to the local ProgreSQL instance (using hostname db) I clicked the Create database link I added a todo database Initially the todo database contained no tables The haddley-java-jpa program running locally connected to a local instance of ProgreSQL Contents of the local instance of ProgreSQL ProgreSQL in Azure I used Microsoft Azure to run an instance of ProgreSQL in Azure. I searched for postgreSQL in Azure I selected the Azure Database for ProgreSQL option I created a new resource group haddley-progressql-rg (sic) I specified the server name haddley-postgressql (sic) and the workload type Development I selected PostgreSQL authentication (providing admin username haddleyroot and a password) I specified firewall options The Azure hosted copy of PostgresSQL has server name haddley-postgressql.postgres.database.azure.com I used Adminer running on http://localhost:9090 to access the Azure hosted PostgresSQL instance I clicked on the Create database link I created a todo database The todo database initially contained no tables /opt/homebrew/Cellar/glfw/3.3.8/include /opt/homebrew/Cellar/glfw/3.3.8/include Web App I created an Azure Web App to host the Java application /opt/homebrew/Cellar/glfw/3.3.8/include /opt/homebrew/Cellar/glfw/3.3.8/include /opt/homebrew/Cellar/glfw/3.3.8/include /opt/homebrew/Cellar/glfw/3.3.8/include /opt/homebrew/Cellar/glfw/3.3.8/include /opt/homebrew/Cellar/glfw/3.3.8/include /opt/homebrew/Cellar/glfw/3.3.8/include /opt/homebrew/Cellar/glfw/3.3.8/include The haddley-java-jpa program being deployed to Azure using the GitHub Action The haddley-java-jpa program running in Azure connected to an Azure hosted instance of ProgreSQL (notice that Azure servers use universal/GMT date and time) Contents of the Azure hosted instance of ProgreSQL References Spring Data JPA: What is it? And Why Should You Use It? 90 Minutes to a Complete Java Spring Boot TODO App
