---
title: "REST"
description: "A comprehensive guide covering rest"
date: "2025-09-20"
category: "Development"
image: "/assets/images/restapiservice.png"
tags: ["javascript","docker","java","ai"]
---

# REST

REST Creating a REST API Service using Node and Express Swagger Logo by Fehguy is licensed under CC HTTP Methods/Verbs Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) defines a set of request methods that a client application will use to ask an HTTP server to do something. HTTP request methods are often called verbs. HTTP verbs include: Get A client application will use a Get method to retrieve something from an HTTP server. Post A client application will use a Post method to send something to an HTTP server. Put A client application will use a Put method to request that something managed by an HTTP server is updated. Delete A client application will use the Delete method to request that something managed by an HTTP server is thrown away. API Routes Routing determines how an HTTP server will respond to a client request. The client application will specify a path and an HTTP verb. Route parameters are passed as part of the URL provided to the HTTP server. Example GET requests: https://localhost/books request details of all books https://localhost/books/1788395549 request details of the book with ISBN Number 1788395549 Route handlers and Response methods Route handlers are functions that execute on the HTTP server when a request is received from the client application. Response methods are used to send something back to the client application. Response methods include: send() Sends a response to the client. sendFile() Sends a file to the client. redirect() Redirects the request. json() Sends a JavaScript object to the client. status() Sets the HTTP status code Example route handlers Using Node.js and Express npm can be used to initialise a REST API project. Use these commands: $ mkdir books $ cd books $ npm init $ npm i express The package.json file The package.json file generated by npm should be updated to: package.json The index.js file The index.js file generated by npm should be updated to: index.js The Dockerfile Visual Studio Code is able to add a Dockerfile to a Node.js project automagically. Open the Command Palette (⇧⌘P) and use the "Docker: Add Docker Files to Workspace..." command: Dockerfile FROM node:12.18-alpine ENV NODE_ENV=production WORKDIR /usr/src/app COPY ["package.json", "package-lock.json*", "npm-shrinkwrap.json*", "./"] RUN npm install --production --silent && mv node_modules ../ COPY . . EXPOSE 5000 CMD ["npm", "start"] REST API Service /books route /books/id route with a valid id /books/id with an invalid id Docker Hub
