---
title: "SharePoint Web Part (Part 2)"
description: "A comprehensive guide covering sharepoint web part (part 2)"
date: "2025-09-20"
category: "Development"
image: "/assets/images/sharepointwebpart2.png"
tags: ["react","javascript","java","ai","testing"]
---

# SharePoint Web Part (Part 2)

SharePoint Web Part (Part 2) How to create and publish a SharePoint Web Part (Part 2) Microsoft Office SharePoint (2018–present) by Microsoft Corporation is licensed under CC Adding the big calendar npm is the package manager for the Node JavaScript platform. The npmjs web site is a repository of reusable software components. react-big-calendar is an events calendar component built for React. https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-big-calendar To add the react-big-calendar component to our SharePoint Web Part solution we run this command: $ npm i react-big-calendar Update the Calendar Function Component This is how to update the Web Part's Calendar Component to include react-big-calendar. Notice that we are again using React's useEffect and useState hooks . Calendar.tsx Pnp react-calendar sample SharePoint provides a REST API . The pnp react-calendar sample project uses an "sp-services" class to hold all of the code needed to fetch Calendar list items from the SharePoint site via SharePoint's REST API. We can use the same approach: sp-services.ts workbench.aspx The code above assumes that your SharePoint site has a Calendar list named "Calendar". The Local Workbench used for Web Part testing does not have a Calendar list, so to test the Web Part we need to navigate to the workbench page in a SharePoint site that does have a Calendar list (eg. https://haddleyoffice365.sharepoint.com/sites/AllStaff/_layouts/15/workbench.aspx). Example Team Site Calendar with sample events Calendar Web Part icon in /layouts/15/workbench.aspx page Calendar Web Part running in /layouts/15/workbench.aspx page displaying sample events Packaging and deploying These commands can be used to create a .sppkg package gulp clean gulp bundle --ship gulp package-solution --ship The Web Part can then be deployed by copying the .sppkg package to the SharePoint tenant's app catalog site. Copying the .sppkg package to the SharePoint app catalog Adding the Calendar Web Part to a Sharepoint page An opportunity to set the Calendar Web Part properties The Calendar Web Part running in the SharePoint page (in Month mode) The Calendar Web Part running in the SharePoint page (in Agenda mode) The Calendar Web Part running in the iOS SharePoint app (in Month mode) The Calendar Web Part running in the iOS SharePoint app (in Agenda mode) References SharePoint Framework web part, Teams tab, personal app, app page samples
