---
title: "Warehouse Management Put away"
description: "A comprehensive guide covering warehouse management put away"
date: "2025-09-20"
category: "Development"
image: "/assets/images/warehousemanagementputaway.png"
tags: ["ai","business central","dynamics"]
---

# Warehouse Management Put away

Microsoft Dynamics 365 Business Central (Part 4) Put-away By Microsoft , Public Domain Warehouse Management - Put-away Businesses that physically move goods in and out of their warehouse need to be able to receive, pick, and ship items. I created a walkthrough. I updated my role to Inventory Manager I clicked the Bin Content link At this point there seems to be nothing in the Warehouse. I clicked Locations link I clicked on the White Warehouse link I clicked on the Zones link The White Warehouse has been divided into 8 zones. Each zone has a Bin Type Bin Type The bin type determines how a bin is used when processing the flow of items through the warehouse. Incoming goods will be unloaded to a "Receive" bin, moved to a "Put Away" bin, removed from a "Pick" bin and sent from a "Ship" bin. In this example these "Bin Types" are defined: PICK (Pick), PUTAWAY (Put Away), PUTPICK (Put Away and Pick), RECEIVE (Receive) and SHIP (Ship). [QC (None) bins are used for items that are excluded from normal item flows.] Bin Types Zones Zones are used to subdivide the warehouse into logical parts. Zones are divided into bins. Notice that bin "W-08-0001" is a RECEIVE bin and "W-04-0001" is a PUTPICK bin. I clicked the Bins link to open a list of Bins in the White Warehouse This is a list of the Bins in the White Warehouse. I clicked Settings|Personalize to open the Personalizing toolbar. I was able to drag fields from the right onto the Bins page I added the Zone Code and the Bin Type Code Fields Notice that bin W-08-0001 is a RECEIVE bin in the RECEIVE Zone Notice that bin W-04-0001 is a PUTPICK bin in the PICK Zone (with a bin ranking of 100) Business Central will allocate incoming items to "Put Away" bins based on a Put-away Template Here two put away templates have been defined In the STD template items will be directed to a Fixed Bin already used for this item type with the same unit measure and less than minimum quantity, a Fixed Bin already used for this item type with the same unit measure, a Floating Bin that already has an item of this type in it with the same unit measure, a Floating Bin that already has an item of this type in it, to an empty bin with the next highest "bin ranking", or to a random floating bin. In the VAR template items will be directed to a Floating Bin that already has an item of this type in it with the same unit measure, to an empty bin with the next highest "bin ranking", or to a random floating bin. Purchase Order Purchase Orders are usually created by a planning process. To demonstrate how items flow through a warehouse I created a Purchase Order manually. I navigated to the Purchase Orders page I clicked the + New link In this case I wanted to purchase items from "First Up Consultants". I selected the Vendor Name box. I selected First Up Consultants The Vendor name and contact details were added to the new Purchase Order page. I wanted to purchase 10 yellow BERLIN Guest Chairs. I entered quantity 10 I wanted to have the chairs shipped to the White Warehouse I clicked the Release link (notice that I did not enter a vendor invoice number - the invoice will not be received for some days or weeks) The Purchase Order document is released. Push or pull the warehouse receipt? After the Purchase Order details have been entered I could have clicked on the "Create Whse. Receipt" link to create a Warehouse Receipt (based on the details in the current Purchase Order). This would be to follow a Push strategy. The alternative is to release the Purchase Order and to let the Warehouse staff create the Warehouse Receipt. In this example I followed a Pull strategy . I switched to the Warehouse Worker role I navigated to the Warehouse Employees page I added myself as a warehouse employee I clicked the Warehouse Receipts link I created a new Warehouse Receipt I clicked the Get Source Documents... link to import details from the Purchase Order into this Warehouse Receipt (Notice that a single Warehouse Receipt can import lines from multiple source documents) Notice that the Bin Code was automatically set to bin W-08-0001 (the RECEIVE bin in the RECEIVE Zone - see above) I clicked the Post Receipt link I posted the Warehouse Receipt As I posted the Warehouse Receipt a Put-away was created I clicked the Put-aways link I clicked on the newly created Put-away I clicked the "i" to collapse the FactBox Notice that the Put-away describes how the items should be moved from bin W-08-0001 (the RECEIVE bin in the RECEIVE Zone) and moved to bin W-04-0001 (the PUTPICK bin in the PICK Zone) I wanted to review the Bin Contents before clicking Register Put-away The items are shown in the W-08-0001 bin (the RECEIVE bin in the RECEIVE Zone) I clicked the Register Put-away link I clicked Yes The put away is completed I wanted to review the Bin Contents after clicking Register Put-away The items are shown in the W-04-0001 bin (the PUTPICK bin in the PICK Zone) References A Put-Away Example
