---
title: "Web Components"
description: "A comprehensive guide covering web components"
date: "2025-09-20"
category: "Development"
image: "/assets/images/webcomponents.png"
tags: ["javascript","java","ml","git","github"]
---

# Web Components

Web Components A set of web technologies that allow users to create HTML elements. This file is licensed under the Apache License 2.0. History In 1998 Microsoft Internet Explorer 5.5 added support for HTML Components. In 2001 Mozilla introduced XBL. In 2007 Mozilla released XBL 2. In 2016 Chrome and Opera added support for Web Components. howto-tooltip The aria-describedby attribute lists the ids of the elements that describe the object. It is used to establish a relationship between widgets or groups and the text that describes them. In the google chrome labs github repository there is a Web Component that creates a howto-tooltip element . The howto-tooltip element only displays the "described by" content when a user is focused on the described element. demo Move to and away from the text box below. If Web Components are supported by your browser the tooltip should appear and disappear. ============ Favourite type of cheese: Help I am trapped inside a tooltip message ============ html embedded above The howto-tooltip Web Component is created using a JavaScript class and defined with a window.customElements.define() call. The JavaScript class has a constructor, a _show method, a _hide method and an implementation for the connectedCallback and disconnectedCallback lifecycle methods. The constructor uses bind to ensure that the _show and _hide methods can show or hide "this" howto-tooltip element. The lifecycle methods add or remove event listeners to the described elements. Notice that if the HTML is accessed by a Web Browser that does not support Web Components (and no "polyfill" has been included) the user is still able to read the tooltip text. howtoTooltip.js template An HTML template is a section of HTML that can be stamped out multiple times on multiple HTML pages. Slots are used to identify places in the HTML template where other content can be grafted. Consider this template from the Web Components Are Easier Than You Think article <body> <template id="my-paragraph"> <p>My paragraph</p> </template> </body> my-paragraph template Using a template with JavaScript Adding a template element to a web page does not result in anything being displayed (see above). We can use JavaScript to apply the template. <script> let template = document.getElementById('my-paragraph'); let templateContent = template.content; document.body.appendChild(templateContent.cloneNode(true)) document.body.appendChild(templateContent.cloneNode(true)) document.body.appendChild(templateContent.cloneNode(true)) </script> Using an HTML template Using a template in a Web Component An easier way to apply a template is to create a Web Component. <script> customElements.define("my-element", class extends HTMLElement { constructor() { super(); let template = document.getElementById("my-paragraph"); let templatecontent = template.content; const shadowRoot = this.attachShadow({ mode: "open" }).appendChild(templatecontent.cloneNode(true)); } }); </script> template.html My paragraph
